---
layout: post
title: Roadmap for 0.1.0-alpha
---

`0.0.1` is far behind what will be introduced in `0.1.0-alpha`. This release
will bring new features and API improvements.

We are releasing a new alpha since the first version was a working but
incomplete prototype.

Along with the changes already introduced, the release will be ready as soon as
the following will be done:

 - merge complete FastCGI integration in the trunk, which include integration of
   `GLib.Application` in the server design
 - api documentation (improvments and merge of `valadoc` branch)
 - improve user documentation
 - more tests and a measured coverage with [gcov](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Gcov.html)

Integration of `GLib.Application` is really cool. It basically provide any
written application with a `GLib.MainLoop` to process asynchronous tasks and
signals to handle startup and shutdown events right from the `Server`.

{% highlight vala linenos %}
using Valum;
using VSGI.Soup;

var app    = new Router ();
var server = new Server (app);

// unique identifier for your application
app.set_application_id ("your.unique.application.id");

app.get("", (req, res) => {
    res.write ("Hello world!".data);
});

server.startup.connect (() => {
    // no request have been processed yet
    // initialize services here (eg. database, memcached, ...)
});

server.shutdown.connect (() => {
    // called after the mainloop finished
    // all requests have been processed
});

server.run ();
{% endhighlight%}

Moreover, application can access a `DBusConnection` and obtain environment data
or request external services.

This sample uses the `org.freedesktop.hostname` DBus service to obtain
information about the hosting environment. Note that you can use DBus to
perform <abbr title="Inter-Process Communication">IPC</abbr> between workers
fairly easily in Vala.

{% highlight vala linenos %}
var connection = server.get_dbus_connection ();

app.get ("hostname", (req, res) => {
    // asynchronous dbus call
    connection.call.begin (
        "org.freedesktop.hostname",  // bus name
        "/org/freedesktop/hostname", // object path
        "org.freedesktop.hostname",  // interface
        "Hostname",
        null, // no arguments
        VariantType.STRING, // return type
        DBusCallFlags.NONE,
        -1, // timeout
        null,
        (obj, r) => {
            var hostname = connection.call.end (r);
            res.write (hostname.get_string ().data);
        });
});
{% endhighlight %}

GLib.Application are designed to be held and released so that it can quit
automatically whenever it's idle (with a possible timout). Gtk uses it to count
the number of opened windows, we use it to measure the number of processing
requests.

Past a certain timeout after the last release, the worker will terminate.

If you have a long-running operation to process asynchronously that does not
involve writting the response (in which case, you are better blocking), you
have to hold the application to keep it alive while it's processing.


### What next?

The next release will be more substantial:

 - middlewares
 - components (if relevant)
 - improve VSGI specification
    - more signals to handle external events
    - better documentation to guide implementations
 - new VSGI implementations (SCGI & CGI)
 - extract VSGI (if ready)

I decided to go ahead for a Mustache implementation that targets GLib and
GObject. I'm still surprised that it hasn't been done yet. It is clearly
essential to bring Vala in general purpose web development. The development
will be in a separate project [here on
GitHub](https://github.com/valum-framework/mustache-glib) and it will not block
the release of the framework.

GResource API is really great and it would be truly amazing to bundle Mustache
templates like we already do with CTPL.

