---
title: Roadmap for the 0.3 series
layout: post
---

The 0.2 series has focused on bringing the basics that will guide the upcoming
features.

Here's the roadmap for the next release `0.3` of Valum:

 - aggressive optimization based on `GLib.Sequence`
 - content negociation
 - HTTP authentification (basic and digest)
 - static resource delivery
 - VSGI loader
 - multipart streams
 - typed rule parameters using GType
 - filters
 - Python and Gjs bindings

The following features have been integrated in the trunk:

 - flags for HTTP methods
 - default `HEAD` to `GET` (still need to strip the body)
 - routing context rather than a stack that provide states and services
 - shared libraries for VSGI implementations compatible with `GLib.TypeModule`
 - `Router.asterisk` to handle asterisk URI `*`
 - inheritence for `Route` to split concerns
 - less responsibilities in `Route` subclasses to encapsulate scopes, types and
   other features in `Router`
 - `register_type` API for the incoming typed parameters

Status handlers has been reworked and cleaned up to cover more cases using
a `switch` block.

 - status handlers are executed in the `Router` context rather than a double
   `try-catch` for consistent behaviours
 - the error message is only used for headers that MUST be part of the
   response, except for redirection codes

## Aggressive Optimizations

Okay, let me calm down. The idea is to bring routing in the `O(log n)` world by
using a `GLib.Sequence` which consist of a binary tree data structure.

Basically, we have a sequence of `Route` objects and we try to find in the
least number of attempts the next one that accepts a given request.

In short, here's what should be done:

 - sorting by exclusive criteria (method, version, ...)
 - sorting by usage
 - pre-lookup using a trie-based index

I still need to figure out more, it's all in [issue #144](https://github.com/valum-framework/valum/issues/144).

## Middlewares

With the common ground set, this series will bring useful middlewares to
process `Request` and `Response` efficiently.

To avoid confusion about what a middleware is, I decided to apply the term only
to `HandlerCallback` instances.

### Content Negociation

Content negociation is implemented as a set of middlewares which check the
request, set the appropriate headers and forward the processing.

If the produced resource is not acceptable, `next` is called unless
`NegociateFlags.FINAL` is specified. Then, a `406 Not Acceptable` is raised.

```csharp
app.get ("", accept ("text/html", (req, res) => {
    res.body.write_all ("<!DOCTYPE html><html>Hello world!</html>");
}));

app.get ("", accept ("text/plain", (req, res) => {
    res.body.write_all ("Hello world!");
}, NegociateFlags.FINAL));
```

The [latests improvements](https://github.com/valum-framework/valum/pull/150)
are awaiting tests.

### Static Resources Delivery

Static resources can be served from a path or a resource bundle. It support
multiple options:

 - `ETag` which identify the resource uniquely to prevent transmission
 - `Last-Modified` (only for path)
 - `X-Sendfile` if the HTTP server supports it
 - mark the delivered resource as public for caches
 - deliver asynchronously

Delivery from `GLib.Resource` defaults on the global resources.

The only requirement is to provide a `path` key in the routing context, which
can be easily done with a rule or a regular expression:

```csharp
using Valum.Static;

app.get ("<path:path>", serve_from_resources (ServeFlags.ENABLE_ETAG));
```

It's living here in [#143](https://github.com/valum-framework/valum/pull/143).

## Flags for HTTP methods

This is a really nice feature.

HTTP methods are now hanlded as flags in the `Router` to perform very efficient
match.

Standard methods are available in `Method` enumeration along with the following
symbols:

 - `ALL` to capture all standard method
 - `OTHER` to capture non-standard method
 - `ANY` to capture any method

If `OTHER` is specified, it must be implemented in the matching callback.

`all` and `methods` have been removed from `Router` for obvious reasons and
`method` has been renamed to `rule` to remain consistent.

```csharp
app.rule (Method.GET | Method.POST, "", () => {

});

app.rule (Method.ALL, "", () => {

});

app.rule (Method.ANY, "", () => {

});
```

`Method.GET` actually stands for `Method.ONLY_GET | Method.HEAD` so that it can
also capture `HEAD` requests. It's pretty handy, but I still need to figure out
how to strip the produced body.

## VSGI Loader

More details here: [#130](https://github.com/valum-framework/valum/pull/130).

Loading of application described as a dynamic module (see
[GModule](https://developer.gnome.org/glib/stable/glib-Dynamic-Loading-of-Modules.html)
for more details) will be brought by a small utility named `vsgi`. It will be
able to spawn instances of the application using a VSGI implementation.

The application has to be written in a specific manner and provide at least one
entry point:

```csharp
public HandlerCallback app;

[CCode (cname = "g_module_check_init")]
public check_init () {
    var _app = new Router ();

    ...
    app = _app.handle;
}

[CCode (cname = "g_module_unload")]
public void unload () {
    app = null;
}
```

```bash
vsgi --directory=build --server=scgi app:app
```

All VSGI implementations are loadable and compatible with `GLib.TypeModule`.

The application is automatically reloaded on `SIGHUP` and it should be possible
to implement live reloading with [GLib.FileMonitor](http://valadoc.org/#!api=gio-2.0/GLib.FileMonitor)
to facilitate the development as well as integration of [Ivy](https://github.com/I-hate-farms/ivy)
to beautify the stack trace.

## Multipart I/O Streams

The multipart stream is essential for any web application that would let
clients submit files.

The implementation will be compatible with [Soup.MultipartInputStream](http://valadoc.org/#!api=libsoup-2.4/Soup.MultipartInputStream).

```csharp
app.post ("", (req, res) => {
   var multipart_body = new MultipartInputStream (req.headers, req.body);

   InputStream? part;
   MessageHeaders part_headers;
   while (part = multipart_body.next_part (out part_headers) != null) {
      if (part_headers.get_content_disposition ())
   }
});
```

## Typed Rule Parameters

The use of GType to interpret and convert rule parameters is essential for an
optimal integration with GLib.

The idea is to declare types on the `Router` and attempt a conversion before
pushing the parameter on the context.

```csharp
app.register_type ("int", /\w+/, typeof (int));

app.get ("<int:i>", (req, res, next, ctx) => {
    var i = ctx["i"].get_int ();
});
```

Type conversion can be registered with `GLib.Value.register_transform_func`:

```csharp
Value.register_transform_func (typeof (string),
                               typeof (int),
                               (src, ref dest) => {
    dest = (Value) int.parse ((string) src);
});
```

One useful approach would be to reverse that process to generate URLs given
a rule.
