about/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

Currently, I work as a Bioinformatics Analyst at the Michael Smith Laboratories
(UBC) with Paul Pavlidis. I also offer consulting services on various topics
such as software development, bioinformatics, mathematical modelling, etc.

I graduated in Computer Science at [Université de Montréal](http://www.umontreal.ca)
and worked at [IRIC](http://iric.ca/) under François Major. You might want to
sneak a peek at my [_curiculum vitae_](/curiculum-vitae-en.pdf)
(or [in french](/curiculum-vitae.pdf) if you prefer).

This blog essentially treat of Web development, Vala programming for GNOME and
some day-to-day tools for academics.

Although I started with [the Kohana framework](http://kohanaframework.org) and
[Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org), my work quickly dwelved into
[Vala](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/Vala), where I try to create an
ecosystem of libraries to support modern Web development. You can read more
about all this under the [Valum](/valum) category.

I am also a passionate of free software (like in free beer!). Most of my work
is licensed under the LGPLv3.

If you would like to reach me, I have an email address which can be accessed in
the left column. If you have to send sensitive information, you may use
[GnuPG](https://www.gnupg.org) along with my [public key](/guillaumepoiriermorency.gpg)
which fingerprint is as follow:

```
6062 E0F8 E73B CBF1 DB85  8003 1CCF C3A2 B1AD 6EA5
```

My username is a slight modification of the goddess of hunt, Artemis.

Commit message:

Add a page with more details about my consulting services

about/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

Currently, I work as a Bioinformatics Analyst at the Michael Smith Laboratories
(UBC) with Paul Pavlidis. I also offer consulting services on various topics
such as software development, bioinformatics, mathematical modelling, etc.

I offer tailored technical and scientific consulting services covering a broad
range of topics in bioinformatics, computer science and mathematical modelling.
[Learn more about all this...](/consulting)

I graduated in Computer Science at [Université de Montréal](http://www.umontreal.ca)
and worked at [IRIC](http://iric.ca/) under François Major. You might want to
sneak a peek at my [_curiculum vitae_](/curiculum-vitae-en.pdf)
(or [in french](/curiculum-vitae.pdf) if you prefer).

This blog essentially treat of Web development, Vala programming for GNOME and
some day-to-day tools for academics.

Although I started with [the Kohana framework](http://kohanaframework.org) and
[Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org), my work quickly dwelved into
[Vala](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/Vala), where I try to create an
ecosystem of libraries to support modern Web development. You can read more
about all this under the [Valum](/valum) category.

I am also a passionate of free software (like in free beer!). Most of my work
is licensed under the LGPLv3.

If you would like to reach me, I have an email address which can be accessed in
the left column. If you have to send sensitive information, you may use
[GnuPG](https://www.gnupg.org) along with my [public key](/guillaumepoiriermorency.gpg)
which fingerprint is as follow:

```
6062 E0F8 E73B CBF1 DB85  8003 1CCF C3A2 B1AD 6EA5
```

My username is a slight modification of the goddess of hunt, Artemis.
